# Haralson V Tileshop Expert Witness Consulting Case Study:

Meagher + Geer, PLLP, a nationwide law firm based in Minneapolis, engaged me as a Data Scientist Expert Witness for a claim addressing overtime wages under the Fair Labor Standards act valued at approximately $1M. In this role I am consulting with my client’s legal team to develop the data strategy for the case, perform the technical data analysis, create trial-ready data visualizations, and preparing to be deposed by opposing counsel and called as a witness in trial.

The goal of this engagement is, from a data-centric perspective, to corroborate the plaintiff’s claim of having worked a specific number of hours over a multi-year period. The technical data analysis included data cleansing, aggregation, transformation, and visualization of multiple large, disparate, and complex datasets. The source data included millions of rows of data across hundreds of files. The data was provided by the defendant’s IT department and was sourced from various business systems including email, messaging, and financial systems.

As part of the data analysis, I used scripts to extract, transform and load the raw data into a normalized table containing the timestamps and work functions performed by their client over the outlined period. The raw tables came in the form of CSV files which were then extracted to a SQL schema. Once the data was normalized and available for analysis, I presented insights from the data and facilitated working sessions with my client on how best to present the data for the lawsuit. I have also provided Expert Witness statements of my data analysis methodology and results for validation by defendant’s counsel.
